Xiaohui Liu 1600 South Eads Street Phone: +1 313-318-8421 Apartment 316N xiaohui@wayne.edu Arlington, Virginia 22202, USA http://www.cs.wayne.edu/xliu Summary I have over six years of experience in developing distributed, embedded, and real-time wireless networking protocols/software, as well as two years in web development. Education 2008Ð2014 Wayne State University, Ph. D. in Computer Science. 2004Ð2008 Wuhan University, China, B. S. in Computer Science. Patent Hongwei Zhang, Xiaohui Liu, Chuan Li, ÒPRK-Based Scheduling for Predictable Link Reliability", U.S. Provisional Application #61/788,445, International Application #PCT/US2014/27055 Experience 4/12 Ð 4/14 Physical-Ratio-K based Scheduling Protocol (PRKS), Research Assistant, Wayne State University, MI. Description: PRKS guarantees the reliability of a wireless link is no less than requirement in the presence of interference while maximizing throughput. Responsibilities: single-handedly implemented PRKS, its two variants, and four state-of-theart protocols from the ground up, on resource-constrained sensors using TinyOS. Through measurement studies in two sensor network testbeds, each consisting of 127+ sensors, we observed that PRKS enables predictably high link reliability (95% vs 0% in others) . The source code is publicly available at https://github.com/xhliu/prks. 9/09 Ð 3/12 Multi-Timescale Adaptation (MTA) Routing Protocol, Research Assistant, Wayne State University, MI. Description: MTA identifies minimal energy paths that meet probabilistic deadlines of real-time traffic, taming dynamics and uncertainties of path delays in wireless networks. Responsibilities: implemented, independently, the whole protocol, its seven variants, and four other protocols from scratch on sensors using TinyOS. Two testbeds of 127+ sensors have verified MTAÕs significant advantages over the state of the art for a variety of settings, improving deadline success ratio by 89% and reducing transmission cost by a factor of 9.7. Code is at https://github.com/xhliu/mta. 2/09 Ð 5/09 LifeCode, Technical Team Member, LifeCode Health, MI. Description: LifeCode is a remote health monitoring system. A wearable sensor measures biometric parameters such as heartbeat rate and transmits the data to a mobile phone. The phone processes and displays the data locally, which also uploads it to servers so health care professionals can access it via a web interface. Responsibilities: built a Windows mobile phone application in C# to receive and display real-time heartbeat rates collected by sensors and transmitted to the phone via Bluetooth. 12/07 Ð 3/08 Microsoft Forefront Security (MFS), Software Engineer Intern, Wicresoft Company, China. Description: MFS is a business antivirus software product that can be controlled over the network. Responsibilities: Participated in writing test cases for and testing of MFS on different Windows families, architectures, and languages. This test is automated using MS-DOS scripting to run MFS on remote machines with various above configurations. 9/06 Ð 11/07 Websites, Chief Development Officer, Trinity Studio, China. Description: Trinity Studio is a studio I co-founded with three classmates, building websites for small businesses, government agencies, and universities. Description: Participated in designing database schema using SQL Server and Access and developing back end using ASP, IIS, and ODBC. Open Source Community Participation TinyOS is the de facto operating system for low-power wireless devices, such as those used in sensor networks and personal area networks. http://www.tinyos.net. I have become familiar with its inner workings, e.g., communication (radio stack cc2420 and cc2420x), networking (MAC and network layer), kernel scheduling, resource arbitration, timer, SPI, UART, watchdog, and sensing. I have reported several bugs, including: . Patch accepted: fixing bug to set default tx power in cc2420x. https://github.com/ sallai/tinyos-main/commit/974ff870551d6fcc86f44e311dcbfd0fb71dbc94 . Patch accepted: fixing bug in duplicate detection in CTP. https://www.millennium. berkeley.edu/pipermail/tinyos-help/2010-March/045095.html Technical Skills Languages: expert in C, TinyOS/nesC, and Matlab; proficient in C++ and LATEX; prior experience in Java, C#, Objective-C, ASP, PHP, Javascript, and HTML Databases: MS SQL Server, MySQL Wireless Standards: 802.11, 802.15.4 Operating systems: Linux, Mac OS X, Windows Awards 2009 Microsoft Imagine Cup US Software Design Top 15 Finalist 2012 Outstanding Graduate Research Assistant (GRA) Award, Wayne State University 2005 National Scholarship, China Selected Publications Adaptive Instantiation of the Protocol Interference Model in Wireless Networked Sensing and Control. Hongwei Zhang, Xin Che, Xiaohui Liu, Xi Ju. In ACM Transactions on Sensor Networks (ToSN), 2014. Taming Uncertainties in Real-Time Routing for Wireless Networked Sensing and Control. Xiaohui Liu, Hongwei Zhang, Qiao Xiang, Xin Che, Xi Ju. In IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid (TSG), 2013. When In-Network Processing Meets Time: Complexity and Effects of Joint Optimization in Wireless Sensor Networks. Qiao Xiang, Jinhong Xu, Xiaohui Liu, Hongwei Zhang, Loren J. Rittle. In IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing (TMC), 2011. 